# Swire_Capstone
A time series analysis of product demand for future releases

**Business Problem (as team presented):**  
  Swire is set to introduce a range of innovative products and requests a reliable forecast model to predict the demand for each. The overall objective is to leverage historical data for similar products to forecast the demand for the new flavors at specific locations within a 13-week range. Additionally, the incorporation of relevant census data is critical to derive insightful business conclusions, such as identifying ideal locations or demographics for the different products based on prior sales. The approach to this project can be broad, encompassing a demand forecast for each innovation product, or in-depth, focusing on a select few products while considering factors like seasonality, trends, and other influencers. Success will be measured by the accuracy of the demand forecasts and the ability to provide actionable insights for strategic decision-making. The project scope includes the execution of the forecast model by the data science team to be presented upon completion, with the potential for additional enhancements in the future.

  Benefiting from a reliable forecast model, Swire aims to make data-driven decisions for the introduction of its new products, optimizing inventory management, and ensuring customer satisfaction. Stakeholders will judge the success of the project based on the accuracy of demand forecasts and the resulting actionable insights. The analytics approach will focus on the utilization of historical and census data to construct a robust forecast model, enabling informed decision-making for product introduction and market positioning. Potentially, additional market factors will be evaluated to achieve a deeper understanding of sales data. The project scope includes the execution of the forecast model with flexibility for potential enhancements based on project milestones and evolving business requirements.

**Group's Solution**  
  We decided to look at the problem from each question as a combined problem. We tried multiple model types, including ARIMA, Regression, and XGBoost. Ultimately, XGBoost gave us the best results and the fewest headaches. I touch more on these issues in a section below. With the results we received from the XGBoost model, we were able to get results to the questions posed. Ultimately, they were not as accurate as we would have liked, mostly down to the way we split the data for training and testing. I took the time to bring in other, external, data that didn't work out since we couldn't tell which location was a gas station, rendering the gas prices that were collected unusable. 

  When attacking the questions, we noticed that many of the requested parameters were not being accounted for in our model. I mistakenly went down a different route to try and solve the problem without rebuilding the model. This took up valuable time, and in hindsight, I probably should have gone back before submitting the model portion and redone the entire model. I partially did that afterwards, this code is in the TimeSeriesSplit notebook attached to this repository. 

  Ultimately, we didn't achieve what we had set out to do. We did get working models in place, though they were not accurate enough to use effectively to answer the questions posed to us. Most of the issues stemmed from the splitting of data and not paring down the dataset to a more manageable size. It was an oversight that came back to bite us as the project progressed.

**My Contribution**  
  My main contributions to the project were centered around the modeling and building of the final presentation. I worked on both an ARIMA model that didn't go anywhere and the XGBoost model that we ended up using. The ARIMA model was a problem for me because of the size of the data. I was obstinate in getting it to run properly to my own detriment. After running it to no satisfactory conclusion in Databricks, I decided to shelve it and focus on the XGBoost model. The failure did cause a bit of concern on my part.  
  After completing the XGBoost model, and receiving what looked like promising metric scores, the next step was the questions. I worked on 3 of the questions posed and saw some concerns with the data as it was after testing completed. I got into a bit of tunnel vision with these and was not able to get satisfactory responses. Again, lesson learned.
  The final portion that I worked on was the PowerPoint presentation. I designed and put together the main components of the presentation, then we as a team fine-tuned it for the result. Overall, I am happy with the visuals and our oral presentation. I think that we were able to display the successes we had while not shying away from the items we could have improved upon.

**Business Value** 
  Unfortunately, as we were unable to execute the predictions in a manner that accurately predicted the demand for the new items, the business value was minimized. I feel that we were able to determine where the mistakes were made and could, given another iteration, have been able to provide solid business value to the sponsor. I understand that is not part of the assignment, but in a real-world environment, this would have been pass one. We ended up on the right track, even if we were short of the destination. 
  The business value that can be derived is obvious, predicting an accurate demand to minimize production waste while assuring that there is enough product for the customers to be able to find the innovative items. I would have liked to take another pass at this, hoping to improve on the achieved results.


**Difficulties Faced**  
  The main difficulty faced was our approach to the dataset. It was large, and we spent too much time going in circles with it, both within the notebook and in Databricks. This caused a cascade that affected the overall predictions and the ultimate results of the project. Some models that we tried simply wouldn’t run. We tried various sampling techniques to create  a more manageable size, however we did not sample correctly. In hindsight, I would have sampled the data based on the question criteria, then run the models. It was a frustrating process, but one that I think provided some valuable insights for future projects.

**Lessons Learned**  
  I think the biggest takeaway for me, when looking at lessons learned from this project, is to be less rigid when it comes to prepping the data for modeling. I tended to get tunnel vision regarding how the data was presented. Being  more flexible and trying to look at it from a different vantage point would have made all the difference in how the models and subsequent predictions performed. 
  Ultimately, I enjoyed this project, the successes and the failures. I came out of it feeling stronger in my skills and having learned what not to do in certain situations.
